* emacs-23.2.92-mac-1.9990 [experimental/hackers-only] (2011-01-15)
Based on Emacs 23.2.92

** Fixed bugs

*** Functions `mac-get-preference' and `mac-send-apple-event-internal'
may fall into unquittable infinite loop for circular args.

** Improvements

*** New function `mac-convert-property-list' for conversion of
CFPropertyList between several formats: xml1, binary1, and Lisp
representation.  Might be useful for processing webarchive data.


* emacs-23.2.91-mac-1.999 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-12-12)
Based on Emacs 23.2.91
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-12/msg00359.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Pixel-based mouse wheel smooth scrolling behavior is
unintentionally affected by some scroll-related variables.


* emacs-23.2.90-mac-1.998 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-11-10)
Based on Emacs 23.2.90
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-11/msg00269.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Fullscreen frame does not hide the Dock that is on a different
screen from the one containing the menu bar.
Note: we cannot hide only the menu bar while showing the Dock.  So the
Dock might be hidden even when the fullscreen frame is not on the
screen containing the Dock.


* emacs-23.2-mac-1.997 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-09-27)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-09/msg01439.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Text shaping does not respect the :destination setting.

** Improvements

*** One can send an Apple event and handle its reply asynchronously.
ODB Editor Suite support is added as an example.  (Only tested with
QuickCursor.  Add "<string>org.gnu.Emacs</string>" to the elements of
QCEditInChoices in QuickCursor.app/Contents/Info.plist.)


* emacs-23.2-mac-1.996 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-07-31)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-07/msg01457.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Boundary indicators in fringes are scrolled out if vscrolled.
Apply a fix for Bug#5634 and Bug#6325.
Now that this annoying problem is fixed, pixel-based mouse wheel
smooth scrolling is enabled by default.  Note that it still has
several glitches and you can turn it off by setting
`mac-mouse-wheel-smooth-scroll' to nil.


* emacs-23.2-mac-1.995 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-06-26)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-06/msg01000.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Text scaling by pinch out/in and by C-x C-+/C-- are not in sync.

*** Shift-Tab is recognized as Tab, and keyboard navigation after
Command-Shift-/ doesn't work on Mac OS X 10.6.  These are regressions
caused by the previous fix for the DefaultKeyBinding.dict problem.

*** Successive paste of the same image from other applications via the
clipboard causes duplication in the kill ring.  Reported by Leo.  This
is a regression caused by the previous fix.

*** Fonts in highlighted words with the pop-up dictionary
(Command-Control-D) are sometimes incorrect.  This is a regression
caused by refactoring for the accessibility support.

** Improvements

*** Font design destination can be specified via the `:destination'
font property.  The value 1 means the destination is video text as in
the XLFD Conventions, and screen font metrics are used in that case.
You can see the difference with (make-frame '((font
. "Monaco-9:antialias=off:destination=1"))), for example.


* emacs-23.2-mac-1.994 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-05-29)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-05/msg00951.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Prefix keys defined in ~/Library/KeyBindings/DefaultKeyBinding.dict
need to be typed multiple times.  Reported by Peter Dyballa and Drew Hess.

*** Successive paste of different images from other applications via
the clipboard only inserts the first image.  Reported by Leo.

*** Successive SVG image loading in `vrend-clock' by Anders Waldenborg
(http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-gnu-emacs/2010-05/msg00521.html)
fails in a few seconds.

*** The variable `face-ignored-fonts' does not work.
Apply Kenichi Handa's fix for Bug#6287.
This is useful when you want to turn off synthetic bold for some fonts
like (add-to-list 'face-ignored-fonts "\\`-[^-]*-monaco-bold-").
Synthetic bold seems to become lighter if the background is darker
than the foreground and the LCD font smoothing is turned on.

** Improvements

*** "Speak selected text with when the key is pressed", which can be
customized in the Speech pane in the System Preferences, now works.

*** New events: magnify-up/down and rotate-left/right.  They are for
newer trackpads with Mac OS X 10.5.2 and later.  By default,
magnify-up/down, which are issued by pinch out/in, are bound to
scaling text size by text-scale-mode.  With the shift key, they turn
on/off fullscreen status of the frame.

*** Experimental support for accessibility with respect to the custom
view for Emacs frames.  Still there are several glitches.


* emacs-23.2-mac-1.993 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-05-09)
Based on Emacs 23.2
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-05/msg00266.html

** Improvements

*** Very experimental support for mouse wheel smooth scroll.  This
still has several glitches especially with respect to tall lines, so
disabled by default for now.  You can try this by setting
`mac-mouse-wheel-smooth-scroll' to t.  Note that this feature might be
withdrawn later.


* emacs-23.1.97-mac-1.992 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-05-04)
Based on Emacs 23.1.97
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-05/msg00106.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Tooltips don't respect customized `tooltip' face font setting.

*** Font specs specified for non-ASCII characters in a non-default
fontset are not used in new frames.  Reported by Ichiro Enoki.

** Improvements

*** New function `mac-file-alias-p', which is parallel to
`file-symlink-p'.


* emacs-23.1.96-mac-1.991 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-04-20)
Based on Emacs 23.1.96
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-04/msg00901.html

** Fixed bugs

*** 64-bit binary built on Mac OS X 10.5 does not run on 10.6.

*** `make bootstrap' fails (though it is not required for normal
installation).  Reported by Leo.

** Improvements

*** `do-applescript' regards a given multibyte string as Unicode text.
It behaves as in Emacs 22 if the script is given as a unibyte string.


* emacs-23.1.95-mac-1.990 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-04-03)
Based on Emacs 23.1.95
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-04/msg00094.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Crash when showing a tooltip on a secondary monitor.

*** Can't quit while establishing a TCP connection.
Apply a fix for Bug#5723 as well as Helmut Eller's fix for Bug#5173.

** Improvements

*** When a maximized frame is moved with title bar dragging on a
multiple monitor environment, the destination monitor is determined by
the mouse position at the end of dragging.  If such a frame is moved
programmatically, the destination monitor is determined by the maximum
area of the contained part of the frame as before.

*** Menu item "Open Selected File in Emacs" is shown in Services or
context menu of other applications by default on Mac OS X 10.6 when
absolute pathname-like text is selected.

*** Emacs info nodes are accessible via search field in the Help menu
if compiled and run on Mac OS X 10.6.

*** "Click in the scroll bar to: Jump to the spot that's clicked"
setting in the System Preferences is supported.


* emacs-23.1.94-mac-1.99 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-03-11)
Based on Emacs 23.1.94
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-03/msg00390.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Dictionary popped up with Command-Control-D is misplaced when a
word in a partially-visible line is looked up.

*** Drag-n-dropping a file into a Message buffer opens the file
instead of adding it as an attachment.  Reported by Leo.

*** Crash when a text is drag-n-dropped into the Dock icon.
Reported by Leo.

*** Not registered as a service provider on Mac OS X 10.4 and earlier,
even if there is no other instance of running Emacs.

*** Modifier mapping for the `fn' key does not work with the `A' key.

** Improvements

*** Reverse conversion in Kotoeri works even without selection.
Hitting Eisu/Kana key on JIS keyboard (or Control-Shift-;/J/K on US
keyboard) twice also works.


* emacs-23.1.93-mac-1.98 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-02-27)
Based on Emacs 23.1.93
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-02/msg00665.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Menu selection via search field in the Help menu doesn't work on
Mac OS X 10.6.
Note: this seems to be still unstable on Mac OS X 10.5.8, crashing at
the function TestMenuSystemAttributes in the HIToolbox framework.
I've experienced similar crashes even with Safari on that version.

*** The function `menu-bar-open' does not activate the menu bar.

*** Menu bar does not get updated after Command-H -> Dock icon click
on Mac OS X 10.5.

** Improvements

*** Scroll bars are excluded from flashed area for visible bell in a
consistent way.

*** Several keyboard shortcuts (notably those for Keyboard Navigation)
listed in System Preferences now work.


* emacs-23.1.92-mac-1.97 [experimental/hackers-only] (2010-01-30)
Based on Emacs 23.1.92
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2010-01/msg01487.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Turning on the toolbar in a fullscreen frame leaves garbage if it
has non-zero internal border width.

** Improvements

*** When the clipboard has both textual and image data, yank inserts
the former and push both into the kill ring so the latter can be
inserted with yank-pop afterwards.

*** Use non-integral x positions for displaying antialiased
proportional fonts.  You can see the difference by putting the box
cursor over Helvetica 12pt `I', whose ideal width is 3.33398 but
displayed with the rounded width 3, for example.


* emacs-23.1.91-mac-1.96 [experimental/hackers-only] (2009-12-31)
Based on Emacs 23.1.91
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-12/msg01112.html

** Fixed bugs

*** The `fullboth' frames, which don't have a title bar, are not shown
in the window list in the Dock menu.

*** Mouse highlighting is not updated on popup (de)activations.

*** With `x-select-font', the first click in a list sometimes results
in a wrong selection.

*** Command line options specifying temporary preferences settings
(e.g., -AppleDisplayScaleFactor 1.25 -AppleAntiAliasingThreshold 14),
just as in other Cocoa applications, are regarded as if they are
specifying filenames to edit.

** Improvements

*** Change of text smoothing threshold setting in the Appearance pane
of the System Preferences is now reflected immediately.


* emacs-23.1.90-mac-1.95 [experimental/hackers-only] (2009-12-10)
Based on Emacs 23.1.90
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-12/msg00466.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Can't get Unicode Variation Sequences subtable for Hanazono font
(2009-12-01, TTF) on Mac OS X 10.4 and earlier.

** Improvements

*** Fullscreen works like with ewmh-compliant X11 window managers.
Note: currently, `fullboth' frames, which don't have a title bar, are
not shown in the window list in the Dock menu.


* emacs-23.1-mac-1.94 [experimental/hackers-only] (2009-11-01)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-11/msg00001.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Kill/yank in tty frames causes an error.

** Improvements

*** When delete-selection-mode is enabled, then the active region is
hidden while the marked text is being shown (so "Reverse conversion"
in Kotoeri looks better).

*** The current cursor position may be returned for a character
position query for text input even if the marked text is not displayed
or handled at the Lisp level yet (so auxiliary windows in AquaSKK 4
are placed better.)

*** SVG images are supported via WebKit on Mac OS X 10.4 and later.
If you have librsvg installed and you want to use WebKit for rendering
SVG images, then you need to specify --without-rsvg as a configure
option.

*** The Mac font backend driver now supports `get_variation_glyphs'
also on Mac OS X 10.4 and earlier.

*** Ideographic Variation Sequences (IVSes) also work for Hiragino
fonts, which don't have a format 14 (Unicode Variation Sequences)
subtable in their cmap table.


* emacs-23.1-mac-1.93 [experimental/hackers-only] (2009-09-27)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-09/msg00745.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Conversion between Lisp and NSPasteboard strings doesn't preserve
NUL characters.

*** Mouse face reacts even while tracking Dock menus or Stacks.

*** Control-Q does not work as the quote binding in file dialogs.

*** Synthetic bold does not work for bitmap-only fonts on Mac OS X
10.6.

** Improvements

*** New events: wheel-left/right as in W32, and
swipe-up/down/left/right on Mac OS X 10.5.2 and later.

*** The Mac font backend driver now supports `get_variation_glyphs' on
Mac OS X 10.5 and later.  You need some OpenType font containing a
format 14 (Unicode Variation Sequences) subtable in its cmap table.

*** Simplified `select' emulation also for Mac OS X 10.5 and earlier.
Its design is similar to the one in the previous release with Grand
Central Dispatch.


* emacs-23.1-mac-1.92 [experimental/hackers-only] (2009-09-05)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-09/msg00105.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Command-Control-D doesn't pop up dictionary on Mac OS X 10.6.

*** Iconified frames aren't considered visible.
Reported by Benjamin Riefenstahl.

*** Can't make iconified frames invisible.

** Improvements

*** Fall back on mac-system-coding-system if script and language
information is not available in text input events.

*** New implementation for the `select' emulation using Grand Central
Dispatch instead of CFSocket.  It is enabled by default if built for
Mac OS X 10.6.  If you find it unstable/problematic, then you can turn
it off by compiling with "-DSELECT_USE_GCD=0".


* emacs-23.1-mac-1.91 [experimental/hackers-only] (2009-08-29)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-08/msg01309.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Doesn't build on Mac OS X 10.6.

*** Multi-page TIFF images are not supported.
I thought they were, but I actually added the code to another working
tree and forgot to merge it in the previous version.

*** "Visit New File" shows a wrong dialog.
Apply Jason Rumney's fix for Bug#3969.

*** Mach port right leaks due to the previous change for the warning
"CFMessagePort: bootstrap_register(): failed".

** Improvements

*** File and font dialogs can be closed with C-g on Mac OS X 10.5 and later.


* emacs-23.1-mac-1.90 [experimental/hackers-only] (2009-08-03)
Based on Emacs 23.1.  Rename from "Carbon+AppKit port" to "Mac port".
Drop support for Mac OS X 10.1 and earlier.
Drop GUI implementation with Carbon HIToolbox.
Revamp font handing completely.
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-08/msg00091.html


* emacs-22.3-appkit-1.5 (2009-08-03)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-08/msg00091.html

** Fixed bugs

*** "open -g" (available on Mac OS X 10.5 and later) does not work.

*** Control-Tab is not recognized on Mac OS X 10.4 and earlier.

** Improvements

*** Resizing truncates the window width/height to multiple of the
nominal character size instead of rounding unless the resizing is
triggered by mouse dragging of the resize handle.

*** Warning "CFMessagePort: bootstrap_register(): failed" with
multiple invocations via command-line or "open -n" is suppressed
(except for Mac OS X 10.4).


* emacs-22.3-appkit-1.4 (2009-06-27)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-06/msg00532.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Fringe bitmap display is incorrect if its width is not 8.

*** Crash when calculating Quickdraw font metrics in an invisible frame.

*** Crash when changing internal-border-width of an invisible frame.

*** Assertion failure in mac_set_font.

*** "Hide" in Login Items does not work. 

*** (mac-pasteboard-string-to-string "\342\204\246" 'mac-roman) gives
GREEK CAPITAL LETTER OMEGA instead of OHM SIGN (likewise for
mac-utxt-to-string).

*** mac-symbol -> emacs-mule mapping is represented wrong for #x30 - #x37.

** Improvements

*** Conversion between CFNumber and Lisp objects now uses Lisp strings
for integers that don't fit in the Lisp float range.


* emacs-22.3-appkit-1.3 (2009-03-27)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-03/msg00485.html

** Fixed bugs

*** Popup dialog button labels may get corrupted.
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-03/msg00261.html

*** Popup dialog does not select the default item with the return key.

*** Tooltip contents are sometimes not shown on 10.4 due to the
previous change for flyspell-small-region slowness.

** Improvements

*** Hourglass (progress indicator) is shown in the title bar.

*** Add f20 and kp-separator to the keycode-to-xkeysym table.


* emacs-22.3-appkit-1.2 (2009-01-24)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2009-01/msg00753.html

** Fixed bugs

*** do-applescript crashes with -nw due to the previous fix for
(do-applescript "choose file") hang.

*** Cursor erasure sometimes fails on Mac OS X 10.5 due to the
previous change for flyspell-small-region slowness.

*** Buffer overrun in creation of Vmac_carbon_version_string.

** Improvements

*** Untag Lisp_Object by subtraction instead of masking.
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2008-01/msg01876.html

*** `select' emulation waits for user signal delivery as well as
window system events and process outputs via sockets.
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2008-10/msg00198.html

*** Hourglass display is enabled.

*** Let the framework decide whether wheel events to non-focus frames
are accepted or not.


* emacs-22.3-appkit-1.1 (2008-11-27)
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2008-11/msg00993.html

** Fixed bugs

*** 64-bit binary doesn't work with AquaSKK Japanese input method.

*** Tooltip contents are chopped off if the fractional part of the
scaling factor is greater than or equal to 0.5.

*** Crash with tooltip autodisplay that happens when its contents are
not yet ready.

*** (do-applescript "choose file") -> cancel -> hang on 10.5.

*** With asynchronous subprocesses, the "[Complete, but not unique]"
message shown by C-x C-f / TAB TAB will disappear on key release.
(Both Carbon and Carbon+Appkit)

*** Crash with tabbar.el (not specific to the Carbon(+AppKit) port).
http://emacsbugs.donarmstrong.com/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=1337

** Improvements

*** Execution of flyspell-small-region is no longer too slow.

*** The "Visit New File" dialog no longer confirms replacement if an
existing file is specified (only on 10.3 and later).

*** Update display while the resize control (or the slider in the font
panel) is being dragged.

*** Align key bindings shown in a menu.

*** Explicitly link with libncurses.5 if MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET <
1040 to avoid runtime link error when running on the versions without
/usr/lib/libncurses.5.4.dylib.


* emacs-22.3-appkit-1.0 (2008-09-07)
Initial release
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-devel/2008-09/msg00268.html
